README.rst, before:

automated-ebs-snapshots
=======================
.. image:: https://pypip.in/d/automated-ebs-snapshots/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi//automated-ebs-snapshots/
    :alt: Downloads
.. image:: https://pypip.in/v/automated-ebs-snapshots/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/automated-ebs-snapshots/
    :alt: Latest Version
.. image:: https://pypip.in/license/automated-ebs-snapshots/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/automated-ebs-snapshots/
    :alt: License

Automated EBS Snapshots helps you ensure that you have up to date snapshots of
your EBS volumes.

All you need to do to get started is documented below.

Installation
------------
::

    pip install automated-ebs-snapshots

Authentication configuration
----------------------------

IAM Policy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

First you need to create an IAM user and give that user correct Permissions. Below is an example policy:
::
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Sid": "Stmt1453988686666",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "ec2:CreateSnapshot",
                    "ec2:CreateTags",
                    "ec2:DeleteTags",
                    "ec2:DeleteSnapshot",
                    "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
                    "ec2:DescribeVolumes"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "*"
                ]
            }
        ]
    }


Automated EBS snapshots can be configured either via command line options or using a configuration file.


Command line options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can use the following command line options to authenticate to AWS.
::

    AWS configuration options:
      --access-key-id ACCESS_KEY_ID
                            AWS access key
      --secret-access-key SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
                            AWS secret access key
      --region REGION       AWS region

Configuration file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create a configuration file anywhere on you file system.
::

    [general]
    access-key-id: xxxx
    secret-access-key: xxxxxxxx
    region: eu-west-1

Then use the ``--config`` command line option to point at your configuration file.

Watching and unwatching volumes
-------------------------------

Start watching a volume
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to enable automatic snapshots, you need to start watching the volume.
The following command will add ``vol-13245678`` to the watchlist with snapshots
created daily.
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/auto-ebs-snapshots.conf --watch vol-12345678 --interval daily

Add volumes to watch list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To add lots of volumes in one time, we can create a configuration file to define volumes(support volume id or Name tag), interval and retention.
::

  vol-d9d6d6af,weekly,2
  volume1,weekly,4
  volume2,daily,0

Then run the following command
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/auto-ebs-snapshots.conf --watch-file volumes.conf

List watched volumes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

List the currently watched volumes and their backup interval
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --list

Stop watching a volume
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To stop creating automated backups for a volume, run this:
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --unwatch vol-12345678

Remove volumes from watch list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To remove all volumes in the configuration file, just run:
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/auto-ebs-snapshots.conf --unwatch-file volumes.conf

List snapshots for a volume
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

List all snapshots for the given volume id or volume name
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --snapshots vol-d9d6d6af

Creating snapshots
------------------

Now, to start taking snapshots you will need to have Automated EBS Snapshots running. You can either run ``automated-ebs-snapshots`` manually (i.e. scheduled in crontab or such) or have it running in daemon mode.

Manual execution
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Running ``automated-ebs-snapshots`` manually:
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --run

It will check if there are any volumes with no or too old snapshots. New
snapshots will be created if needed.

Daemon mode
^^^^^^^^^^^
Start the daemon by running
::

  automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --daemon start

Stop the daemon with
::

  automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --daemon stop

You can also restart it using
::

  automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --daemon restart

Release notes
-------------

0.4.1
^^^^^

- Fix for logging incorrect region information when using instance role (`#19 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/pull/19>`__). Thanks `@robaman <https://github.com/robaman>`__ for the pull request

0.4.0
^^^^^

- Added support for reading volumes from file (`#13 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/13>`__). Thanks `@yumminhuang <https://github.com/yumminhuang>`__ for the pull request
- Now supports managing volumes by tag `Name` in addition to `volume-id` (`#13 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/13>`__). Thanks `@yumminhuang <https://github.com/yumminhuang>`__ for the pull request

0.3.2
^^^^^

- Bumped requirement to boto >= 2.29.0 (`#7 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/7>`__)

0.3.1
^^^^^

- Fixed IAM Instance Profile authentication for boto >= 2.29.0 (`#6 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/6>`__)

0.3.0
^^^^^

- Print volume Name tag in --list (`#3 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/3>`__)
- Support authentication using instance profiles (`#5 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/5>`__)
- Only write logs to file if --log-file is specified (`#2 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/2>`__)

Author
------

This project is maintained by `Sebastian Dahlgren <http://www.sebastiandahlgren.se>`__ and it is supported by `Skymill Solutions <http://www.skymillsolutions.com>`__.

License
-------

APACHE LICENSE 2.0
Copyright 2014 Skymill Solutions

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   `http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>`__

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Be explicit how to use IAM role

README.rst, after:

automated-ebs-snapshots
=======================
.. image:: https://pypip.in/d/automated-ebs-snapshots/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi//automated-ebs-snapshots/
    :alt: Downloads
.. image:: https://pypip.in/v/automated-ebs-snapshots/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/automated-ebs-snapshots/
    :alt: Latest Version
.. image:: https://pypip.in/license/automated-ebs-snapshots/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/automated-ebs-snapshots/
    :alt: License

Automated EBS Snapshots helps you ensure that you have up to date snapshots of
your EBS volumes.

All you need to do to get started is documented below.

Installation
------------
::

    pip install automated-ebs-snapshots

Authentication configuration
----------------------------

IAM Policy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

First you need to create an IAM user and give that user correct Permissions. Below is an example policy:
::
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Sid": "Stmt1453988686666",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "ec2:CreateSnapshot",
                    "ec2:CreateTags",
                    "ec2:DeleteTags",
                    "ec2:DeleteSnapshot",
                    "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
                    "ec2:DescribeVolumes"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "*"
                ]
            }
        ]
    }


Automated EBS snapshots can be configured either via command line options or using a configuration file.


Command line options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can use the following command line options to authenticate to AWS.
::

    AWS configuration options:
      --access-key-id ACCESS_KEY_ID
                            AWS access key
      --secret-access-key SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
                            AWS secret access key
      --region REGION       AWS region

Configuration file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create a configuration file anywhere on you file system. If parameters for `access-key-id` and `secret-access-key` are not specified, the instance's IAM role will be used instead.
::

    [general]
    access-key-id: xxxx
    secret-access-key: xxxxxxxx
    region: eu-west-1

Then use the ``--config`` command line option to point at your configuration file.

Watching and unwatching volumes
-------------------------------

Start watching a volume
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to enable automatic snapshots, you need to start watching the volume.
The following command will add ``vol-13245678`` to the watchlist with snapshots
created daily.
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/auto-ebs-snapshots.conf --watch vol-12345678 --interval daily

Add volumes to watch list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To add lots of volumes in one time, we can create a configuration file to define volumes(support volume id or Name tag), interval and retention.
::

  vol-d9d6d6af,weekly,2
  volume1,weekly,4
  volume2,daily,0

Then run the following command
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/auto-ebs-snapshots.conf --watch-file volumes.conf

List watched volumes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

List the currently watched volumes and their backup interval
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --list

Stop watching a volume
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To stop creating automated backups for a volume, run this:
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --unwatch vol-12345678

Remove volumes from watch list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To remove all volumes in the configuration file, just run:
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/auto-ebs-snapshots.conf --unwatch-file volumes.conf

List snapshots for a volume
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

List all snapshots for the given volume id or volume name
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --snapshots vol-d9d6d6af

Creating snapshots
------------------

Now, to start taking snapshots you will need to have Automated EBS Snapshots running. You can either run ``automated-ebs-snapshots`` manually (i.e. scheduled in crontab or such) or have it running in daemon mode.

Manual execution
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Running ``automated-ebs-snapshots`` manually:
::

    automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --run

It will check if there are any volumes with no or too old snapshots. New
snapshots will be created if needed.

Daemon mode
^^^^^^^^^^^
Start the daemon by running
::

  automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --daemon start

Stop the daemon with
::

  automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --daemon stop

You can also restart it using
::

  automated-ebs-snapshots --config ~/automated-ebs-snapshots.conf --daemon restart

Release notes
-------------

0.4.1
^^^^^

- Fix for logging incorrect region information when using instance role (`#19 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/pull/19>`__). Thanks `@robaman <https://github.com/robaman>`__ for the pull request

0.4.0
^^^^^

- Added support for reading volumes from file (`#13 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/13>`__). Thanks `@yumminhuang <https://github.com/yumminhuang>`__ for the pull request
- Now supports managing volumes by tag `Name` in addition to `volume-id` (`#13 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/13>`__). Thanks `@yumminhuang <https://github.com/yumminhuang>`__ for the pull request

0.3.2
^^^^^

- Bumped requirement to boto >= 2.29.0 (`#7 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/7>`__)

0.3.1
^^^^^

- Fixed IAM Instance Profile authentication for boto >= 2.29.0 (`#6 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/6>`__)

0.3.0
^^^^^

- Print volume Name tag in --list (`#3 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/3>`__)
- Support authentication using instance profiles (`#5 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/5>`__)
- Only write logs to file if --log-file is specified (`#2 <https://github.com/skymill/automated-ebs-snapshots/issues/2>`__)

Author
------

This project is maintained by `Sebastian Dahlgren <http://www.sebastiandahlgren.se>`__ and it is supported by `Skymill Solutions <http://www.skymillsolutions.com>`__.

License
-------

APACHE LICENSE 2.0
Copyright 2014 Skymill Solutions

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   `http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>`__

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
